[TW-1421] Refresh writing-scripts/test-scripts (#5183)
postmanlabs/postman-docs: src/pages/docs/writing-scripts/test-scripts.md

    * [Validate responses](#validate-responses)
    * [Format test result messages with pm.expect](#format-test-result-messages-using-pmexpect)
* [Test collections and folders](#test-collections-and-folders)
* [Debug your tests](#debug-your-tests)
* [Write tests using Postbot](#write-tests-using-postbot)
* [Next steps](#next-steps)

## Testing in Postman

Some of the most common approaches to [API testing](https://www.postman.com/api-platform/api-testing/) are contract testing, unit testing, end-to-end testing, and load testing.

Tests confirm that your API is working as expected, that integrations between services are functioning reliably, and that any changes haven't broken existing functionality. You can write test scripts for your Postman API requests in JavaScript. You can also use test code to aid the debugging process when something goes wrong with your API project. For example, you might write a test to validate your API's error handling by sending a request with incomplete data or wrong parameters.

The **Pre-request Script** and **Tests** tabs use the Postman Sandbox, a runtime based on Node.js that enables you to add dynamic behavior to requests and collections.

> The **Pre-request** tab enables you to do any processing needed before sending a request, like setting variable values and any code here runs before the request is sent. To learn more, see [Write pre-request scripts](/docs/writing-scripts/pre-request-scripts/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Pre-request** tab enables you to do any processing needed before sending a request, like setting variable values. Any code here runs before the request is sent. To learn more, see [Write pre-request scripts](/docs/writing-scripts/pre-request-scripts/).
```

The **Tests** tab allows for any post-processing after a request is sent and includes the ability to write tests for assessing response data. The **Test tab** sandbox has the [Chai.js](https://www.chaijs.com/api/bdd/) library built in, so you can use Chai's behavior-driven development (BDD) syntax to create readable test assertions.

> If you open the right-side panel on either sandbox, you'll see a list of test snippets. You can select to inject these pre-written blocks of code. Some will help you retrieve the data from variables, some are boilerplate tests, and some perform common utility functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the side pane in either sandbox to view a list of test snippets. You can select one or more snippets to inject these pre-written blocks of code. Some will help you retrieve the data from variables, some are boilerplate tests, and some perform common utility functions.
```

Reviewer 2: Check out entries for "pane" and "directional information" on: https://postmanlabs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/TW/pages/3346170709/A-Z+word+list

Also check out entry for "see" on: https://postmanlabs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/TW/pages/3828744395/Inclusive+Language

> Postman's AI assistant Postbot reduces the need to write boilerplate code for tests. Access Postbot from the the Postman footer or the test editor. As you start typing your tests, you get suggestions of common behaviors that you can test for. Postbot also examines the response to your request and any saved examples to generate relevant test code. Postbot has other features as well, like the visualization generator.

Author: ```suggestion
Postman's AI assistant Postbot reduces the need to write boilerplate code for tests. Access Postbot from the the Postman footer or the Postbot icon in the test editor. As you start typing your tests, you get suggestions of common behaviors that you can test for. Postbot also examines the response to your request and any saved examples to generate relevant test code. Postbot has other features as well, like the visualization generator.
```

> Postman's AI assistant Postbot reduces the need to write boilerplate code for tests. Access Postbot from right-side panel or the bottom status bar. Postbot is also built into the test editor. As you start typing your tests, you get suggestions of common behaviors that you can test for. Postbot also examines the response to your request and any saved examples to generate relevant test code. Postbot has other features, like visualization generator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Postman's AI assistant Postbot reduces the need to write boilerplate code for tests. Access Postbot from the right-side panel or the bottom status bar. Postbot is also built into the test editor. As you start typing your tests, you get suggestions of common behaviors that you can test for. Postbot also examines the response to your request and any saved examples to generate relevant test code. Postbot has other features as well, like the visualization generator.
```

> Postman's AI assistant Postbot reduces the need to write boilerplate code for tests. Access Postbot from the right-side panel or the bottom status bar. Postbot is also built into the test editor. As you start typing your tests, you get suggestions of common behaviors that you can test for. Postbot also examines the response to your request and any saved examples to generate relevant test code. Postbot has other features as well, like the visualization generator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Postman's AI assistant Postbot reduces the need to write boilerplate code for tests. Access Postbot from the side pane of the **Tests** tab or **Pre-request Script** tab or from the Postman footer. Postbot is also built into the test editor. As you start typing your tests, you get suggestions of common behaviors that you can test for. Postbot also examines the response to your request and any saved examples to generate relevant test code. Postbot has other features as well, like the visualization generator.
```

Reviewer 2: We use "footer" rather than "status bar": https://learning.postman.com/docs/getting-started/basics/navigating-postman/#footer

Weirdly, I'm seeing Postbot in the side pane in the web app but not the desktop app 🤔 Looks like your screenshot below shows the same

## Add a test

You can add tests to individual [requests](/docs/sending-requests/requests/), [collections](/docs/sending-requests/intro-to-collections/), and folders in a collection. Postman includes code snippets you add and then change to suit your test logic.

To add tests to a request, open the request and enter your code in the **Tests** tab. Tests will execute after the request runs. The output is in the response's __Test Results__ tab.

![Request Test Tab](https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/request-test-tab-v10-19.jpg)

> <img alt="Collections icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/Collections.png#icon" width="24px"> See how to work with the Postman basic test syntax to test a single HTTP API request in a sample collection template. To try out this template, select [API testing basics](https://www.postman.com/templates/e9a37a28-055b-49cd-8c7e-97494a21eb54/API-testing-basics).

### Add a test to a gRPC request

1. Go to the **Scripts** tab in your gRPC request.
2. Select the execution hook (**Before invoke** or **After response**) to which you want to add a test.

> 3. Use snippets from the right pane to add a test or write customized assertion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Use snippets from the right pane to add a test or write customized assertions.
```
